contact.md, before:

# Contact the Tekton Community

We are so happy you want to get in touch! You can reach and join us via:

* [Slack](#slack)
* [Our mailing list](#mailing-list)
* [The Tekton working group](#working-group)

## Slack

We can be reached on slack at
[`#build-pipeline`](https://knative.slack.com/messages/build-pipeline)!

(We were formerly part of [the knative project](github.com/knative)) and they
are kindly letting us continue to use their slack until we get our own!)

## Mailing List

Our mailing list is
[tekton-dev@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tekton-dev).

All docs which are shared with the Tekton community (including
[working group](#working-group) meeting recordings!) are made visible to this group,
so please join if you are interested in accessing those docs.

## Working Group

The Tekton working group meets
[at 9am PST on Tuesdays](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=amZyNTljOWpkZWdibmpsY3JlazNodDU5NWdfMjAxOTAzMjZUMTYwMDAwWiBnb29nbGUuY29tX2Qzb3Zjdm8xcDMyMTloOTg5NTczdjk4Zm5zQGc&tmsrc=google.com_d3ovcvo1p3219h989573v98fns%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL).

Everyone is welcome!

Recordings are made and posted in
[the meeting minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rPR7m1Oj0ip3bpd_bcS1sjZyPgGi_g9asF5YrExeESc).
This doc and the recordings themselves are visible to [all members of our mailing list](#mailing-list).

Commit message:

Update link to use `tektoncd` slack! 🗣️
We have our own slack now :D Let the cats rain down!

contact.md, after:

# Contact the Tekton Community

We are so happy you want to get in touch! You can reach and join us via:

* [Slack](#slack)
* [Our mailing list](#mailing-list)
* [The Tekton working group](#working-group)

## Slack

We can be reached [on the `tektoncd` slack](https://tektoncd.slack.com/)!

Some important channels:

* `#admin` - Request slack related changes, e.g. proposing new channels
* `#plumbing` - Request [infrastructure support](https://github.com/tektoncd/plumbing#support)

## Mailing List

Our mailing list is
[tekton-dev@](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tekton-dev).

All docs which are shared with the Tekton community (including
[working group](#working-group) meeting recordings!) are made visible to this group,
so please join if you are interested in accessing those docs.

## Working Group

The Tekton working group meets
[at 9am PST on Tuesdays](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=amZyNTljOWpkZWdibmpsY3JlazNodDU5NWdfMjAxOTAzMjZUMTYwMDAwWiBnb29nbGUuY29tX2Qzb3Zjdm8xcDMyMTloOTg5NTczdjk4Zm5zQGc&tmsrc=google.com_d3ovcvo1p3219h989573v98fns%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL).

Everyone is welcome!

Recordings are made and posted in
[the meeting minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rPR7m1Oj0ip3bpd_bcS1sjZyPgGi_g9asF5YrExeESc).
This doc and the recordings themselves are visible to [all members of our mailing list](#mailing-list).
